docs/courses/devops-interview/README.md, before:

# DevOps Interview Complete Course

<div style="text-align: center; margin: 2rem 0;">
  <h1 style="font-size: 3rem; color: #00d4ff; margin-bottom: 0.5rem;">🚀 DevOps Interview</h1>
  <p style="font-size: 1.2rem; color: #666;">Master DevOps for Interviews - From Fundamentals to Advanced</p>
</div>

Welcome to the **most comprehensive DevOps Interview course**! This course is designed to take you from beginner to interview-ready, covering everything you need to ace DevOps interviews at top tech companies.

## 🎯 What You'll Learn

!!! success "Complete Interview Preparation"
    - **Fundamentals**: Linux, Shell Scripting, Git - Master the basics
    - **Container Technologies**: Docker, Kubernetes - Deep dive with practical examples
    - **CI/CD & Automation**: GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Infrastructure as Code
    - **Cloud & Infrastructure**: AWS, Cloud Architecture, Monitoring
    - **Advanced Topics**: System Design, Security, Troubleshooting
    - **Interview Questions**: Real questions from top companies with detailed answers

## 📚 Course Structure

### Part 1: Fundamentals (Chapters 1-4)

!!! tip "Start Here"
    Build a solid foundation with Linux, scripting, and version control.

1. **[Introduction](01-introduction)** - Course overview and interview strategy
2. **[Linux Fundamentals](02-linux-fundamentals)** - Essential Linux commands and concepts
3. **[Shell Scripting](03-shell-scripting)** - Bash scripting for automation
4. **[Git & Version Control](04-git-version-control)** - Git workflows and best practices

### Part 2: Container Technologies (Chapters 5-7)

!!! note "Core Skills"
    Master containerization and orchestration - essential for modern DevOps.

5. **[Docker Deep Dive](05-docker-deep-dive)** - Advanced Docker concepts
6. **[Kubernetes Mastery](06-kubernetes-mastery)** - Complete Kubernetes guide
7. **[Container Orchestration](07-container-orchestration)** - Advanced orchestration patterns

### Part 3: CI/CD & Automation (Chapters 8-10)

!!! info "Automation is Key"
    Learn to build robust CI/CD pipelines and automate infrastructure.

8. **[CI/CD Pipelines](08-cicd-pipelines)** - Pipeline design and best practices
9. **[GitHub Actions & GitLab CI](09-github-actions-gitlab)** - Modern CI/CD with GitHub Actions and GitLab CI
10. **[Infrastructure as Code](10-infrastructure-as-code)** - Terraform, Ansible, CloudFormation

### Part 4: Cloud & Infrastructure (Chapters 11-13)

!!! warning "Cloud Expertise"
    Master cloud services and infrastructure management.

11. **[AWS Services](11-aws-services)** - Comprehensive AWS guide
12. **[Cloud Architecture](12-cloud-architecture)** - Design scalable systems
13. **[Monitoring & Logging](13-monitoring-logging)** - Observability and troubleshooting

### Part 5: Advanced Topics (Chapters 14-17)

!!! success "Interview Ready"
    Advanced concepts and real interview questions.

14. **[System Design](14-system-design)** - Design distributed systems
15. **[Security Best Practices](15-security)** - DevSecOps and security
16. **[Troubleshooting](16-troubleshooting)** - Debug production issues
17. **[Interview Questions](17-interview-questions)** - 200+ questions with answers
18. **[Resources & Reading](18-resources-reading)** - Books, articles, papers, tools

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of Linux
- Familiarity with command line
- Willingness to practice hands-on

### Learning Path

1. **Week 1-2**: Fundamentals (Chapters 1-4)
2. **Week 3-4**: Container Technologies (Chapters 5-7)
3. **Week 5-6**: CI/CD & Automation (Chapters 8-10)
4. **Week 7-8**: Cloud & Infrastructure (Chapters 11-13)
5. **Week 9-10**: Advanced Topics & Interview Prep (Chapters 14-17)

## 💡 Learning Tips

!!! tip "Study Strategy"
    1. **Practice Hands-on**: Set up your own lab environment
    2. **Build Projects**: Create real-world projects for your portfolio
    3. **Mock Interviews**: Practice with peers or mentors
    4. **Review Regularly**: Revisit concepts you find challenging
    5. **Stay Updated**: Follow DevOps blogs and communities

!!! note "Interview Preparation"
    - Focus on understanding concepts, not just memorizing
    - Practice explaining complex topics simply
    - Prepare STAR method stories for behavioral questions
    - Review system design patterns
    - Practice coding challenges related to DevOps

## 🏆 Course Features

!!! success "What Makes This Course Special"
    - ✅ **17 comprehensive chapters** covering all DevOps topics
    - ✅ **200+ interview questions** with detailed answers
    - ✅ **Practical examples** and hands-on exercises
    - ✅ **Real-world scenarios** from top tech companies
    - ✅ **Beginner-friendly** explanations of advanced concepts
    - ✅ **Interview tips** and strategies throughout

## 📝 Notes & Tips Throughout

Every chapter includes:
- **💡 Tips** - Interview tips and best practices
- **📝 Notes** - Important concepts explained simply
- **⚠️ Common Mistakes** - What interviewers watch out for
- **✅ Best Practices** - Industry-standard approaches
- **🎯 Interview Focus** - What to emphasize in interviews

## 🎯 Learning Objectives

By the end of this course, you will be able to:

- ✅ Answer fundamental DevOps questions confidently
- ✅ Design and implement CI/CD pipelines
- ✅ Work with Docker and Kubernetes effectively
- ✅ Design scalable cloud architectures
- ✅ Troubleshoot production issues
- ✅ Explain complex concepts clearly
- ✅ Handle system design questions
- ✅ Ace DevOps interviews at top companies

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Essential Documentation
- [DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Complete DevOps learning path
- [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/) - Comprehensive AWS guides
- [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/) - Official K8s docs
- [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Docker guides and references

### Recommended Reading
- See [Resources & Recommended Reading](18-resources-reading.md) chapter for comprehensive list
- Research papers on DevOps practices
- Industry articles and blog posts
- Books and comprehensive guides
- Tools and community resources

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem; padding: 2rem; background: #f5f5f5; border-radius: 8px;">
  <h2 style="margin-bottom: 1rem;">Ready to Ace Your DevOps Interview?</h2>
  <p style="font-size: 1.1rem; margin-bottom: 1.5rem;">Start your journey with Chapter 1</p>
  <a href="01-introduction" style="display: inline-block; padding: 0.75rem 2rem; background: #00d4ff; color: white; text-decoration: none; border-radius: 5px; font-weight: bold;">Start Learning →</a>
</div>

---

*Last Updated: November 2024*

Commit message:

Add SRE AIML resources for Site Reliability Engineer AIML - Associate role

docs/courses/devops-interview/README.md, after:

# DevOps Interview Complete Course

<div style="text-align: center; margin: 2rem 0;">
  <h1 style="font-size: 3rem; color: #00d4ff; margin-bottom: 0.5rem;">🚀 DevOps Interview</h1>
  <p style="font-size: 1.2rem; color: #666;">Master DevOps for Interviews - From Fundamentals to Advanced</p>
</div>

Welcome to the **most comprehensive DevOps Interview course**! This course is designed to take you from beginner to interview-ready, covering everything you need to ace DevOps interviews at top tech companies.

## 🎯 What You'll Learn

!!! success "Complete Interview Preparation"
    - **Fundamentals**: Linux, Shell Scripting, Git - Master the basics
    - **Container Technologies**: Docker, Kubernetes - Deep dive with practical examples
    - **CI/CD & Automation**: GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Infrastructure as Code
    - **Cloud & Infrastructure**: AWS, Cloud Architecture, Monitoring
    - **Advanced Topics**: System Design, Security, Troubleshooting
    - **Interview Questions**: Real questions from top companies with detailed answers

## 📚 Course Structure

### Part 1: Fundamentals (Chapters 1-4)

!!! tip "Start Here"
    Build a solid foundation with Linux, scripting, and version control.

1. **[Introduction](01-introduction)** - Course overview and interview strategy
2. **[Linux Fundamentals](02-linux-fundamentals)** - Essential Linux commands and concepts
3. **[Shell Scripting](03-shell-scripting)** - Bash scripting for automation
4. **[Git & Version Control](04-git-version-control)** - Git workflows and best practices

### Part 2: Container Technologies (Chapters 5-7)

!!! note "Core Skills"
    Master containerization and orchestration - essential for modern DevOps.

5. **[Docker Deep Dive](05-docker-deep-dive)** - Advanced Docker concepts
6. **[Kubernetes Mastery](06-kubernetes-mastery)** - Complete Kubernetes guide
7. **[Container Orchestration](07-container-orchestration)** - Advanced orchestration patterns

### Part 3: CI/CD & Automation (Chapters 8-10)

!!! info "Automation is Key"
    Learn to build robust CI/CD pipelines and automate infrastructure.

8. **[CI/CD Pipelines](08-cicd-pipelines)** - Pipeline design and best practices
9. **[GitHub Actions & GitLab CI](09-github-actions-gitlab)** - Modern CI/CD with GitHub Actions and GitLab CI
10. **[Infrastructure as Code](10-infrastructure-as-code)** - Terraform, Ansible, CloudFormation

### Part 4: Cloud & Infrastructure (Chapters 11-13)

!!! warning "Cloud Expertise"
    Master cloud services and infrastructure management.

11. **[AWS Services](11-aws-services)** - Comprehensive AWS guide
12. **[Cloud Architecture](12-cloud-architecture)** - Design scalable systems
13. **[Monitoring & Logging](13-monitoring-logging)** - Observability and troubleshooting

### Part 5: Advanced Topics (Chapters 14-19)

!!! success "Interview Ready"
    Advanced concepts and real interview questions.

14. **[System Design](14-system-design)** - Design distributed systems
15. **[Security Best Practices](15-security)** - DevSecOps and security
16. **[Troubleshooting](16-troubleshooting)** - Debug production issues
17. **[Interview Questions](17-interview-questions)** - 200+ questions with answers
18. **[Resources & Reading](18-resources-reading)** - Books, articles, papers, tools
19. **[SRE AIML Resources](19-sre-aiml-resources)** - Site Reliability Engineering for AI/ML systems

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of Linux
- Familiarity with command line
- Willingness to practice hands-on

### Learning Path

1. **Week 1-2**: Fundamentals (Chapters 1-4)
2. **Week 3-4**: Container Technologies (Chapters 5-7)
3. **Week 5-6**: CI/CD & Automation (Chapters 8-10)
4. **Week 7-8**: Cloud & Infrastructure (Chapters 11-13)
5. **Week 9-10**: Advanced Topics & Interview Prep (Chapters 14-17)

## 💡 Learning Tips

!!! tip "Study Strategy"
    1. **Practice Hands-on**: Set up your own lab environment
    2. **Build Projects**: Create real-world projects for your portfolio
    3. **Mock Interviews**: Practice with peers or mentors
    4. **Review Regularly**: Revisit concepts you find challenging
    5. **Stay Updated**: Follow DevOps blogs and communities

!!! note "Interview Preparation"
    - Focus on understanding concepts, not just memorizing
    - Practice explaining complex topics simply
    - Prepare STAR method stories for behavioral questions
    - Review system design patterns
    - Practice coding challenges related to DevOps

## 🏆 Course Features

!!! success "What Makes This Course Special"
    - ✅ **19 comprehensive chapters** covering all DevOps topics
    - ✅ **200+ interview questions** with detailed answers
    - ✅ **Practical examples** and hands-on exercises
    - ✅ **Real-world scenarios** from top tech companies
    - ✅ **Beginner-friendly** explanations of advanced concepts
    - ✅ **Interview tips** and strategies throughout
    - ✅ **SRE for AI/ML** specialized resources for AIML roles

## 📝 Notes & Tips Throughout

Every chapter includes:
- **💡 Tips** - Interview tips and best practices
- **📝 Notes** - Important concepts explained simply
- **⚠️ Common Mistakes** - What interviewers watch out for
- **✅ Best Practices** - Industry-standard approaches
- **🎯 Interview Focus** - What to emphasize in interviews

## 🎯 Learning Objectives

By the end of this course, you will be able to:

- ✅ Answer fundamental DevOps questions confidently
- ✅ Design and implement CI/CD pipelines
- ✅ Work with Docker and Kubernetes effectively
- ✅ Design scalable cloud architectures
- ✅ Troubleshoot production issues
- ✅ Explain complex concepts clearly
- ✅ Handle system design questions
- ✅ Ace DevOps interviews at top companies

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Essential Documentation
- [DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Complete DevOps learning path
- [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/) - Comprehensive AWS guides
- [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/) - Official K8s docs
- [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Docker guides and references

### Recommended Reading
- See [Resources & Recommended Reading](18-resources-reading.md) chapter for comprehensive list
- See [SRE AIML Resources](19-sre-aiml-resources.md) for AI/ML SRE specialization
- Research papers on DevOps practices
- Industry articles and blog posts
- Books and comprehensive guides
- Tools and community resources

---

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 3rem; padding: 2rem; background: #f5f5f5; border-radius: 8px;">
  <h2 style="margin-bottom: 1rem;">Ready to Ace Your DevOps Interview?</h2>
  <p style="font-size: 1.1rem; margin-bottom: 1.5rem;">Start your journey with Chapter 1</p>
  <a href="01-introduction" style="display: inline-block; padding: 0.75rem 2rem; background: #00d4ff; color: white; text-decoration: none; border-radius: 5px; font-weight: bold;">Start Learning →</a>
</div>

---

*Last Updated: November 2024*
